Title:
Named-entity dataset for ancient languages

Link (for now):
https://github.com/clemsciences/chr2021

https://github.com/clemsciences/LaTeCH-CLfL-2020-besnier

Affiliations:
Clément Besnier, no affiliation (or CLTK organisation?)

Abstract:
The dataset is the annotations of named-entities present in three full medieval texts.
Annotations are a set of tokens that proper nouns in the texts.


Keywords:
NER, annotations, corpus

Context:

<Explain my paper>


1) Methods

Steps
- proper nouns are written with an upper case character as first character. Such tokens that are not at the beginning of a sentence are probably proper nouns. Other tokens must be manually annotated.
- the merging part,

Sampling Strategy

Quality Control

After the first step, a complete review has been done by using the index present in MGH https://www.dmgh.de/mgh_ss_rer_merov_1_1/index.htm#page/(540)/mode/1up.
There were few mistakes (DESCRIBE THEM). With this index, I could use the correct lemma (nominative singular form)


Old Norse (ON), Middle High German (MHG)

First,  tokenisers  for  Latin,  Old  Norse  and  Middle  High  German  from  CLTK  (Johnson  and  Burns,2014) were applied; then, as texts are normalised, tokens with a first capital character were considered as potential proper nouns. Next, we removed proper noun candidates that were also found with a lower case as first character.  Finally, translations were used in parallel with the original texts to manually check if they were proper nouns. An index of proper nouns were also used when they existed (it was the case for
DLH(von Sali, 1892) and forNIB(Anonymous, 2011)). The issue was that they were in German and inFrench (forNIB, the lemmas of proper nouns were given in Middle High German). Finally proper nounswere split into three categories:  names of persons, gods and creatures; names of places; and names ofobjects. Only the first category was used. The rest might be useful for future work.

2) Dataset description
Object name

Format names and versions

Creation dates

Dataset Creators
Me

Language
DLH: Latin and French
NIB: Middle High German, High German
VÖL: Old Norse, English

3) Reuse potential
This may be used to train models for NER

Acknowledgements:


References:





It is a dictionary for each text where keys are lemma and values are their matching forms present int the text.



: the Ten Books of History, the Völsunga saga and the Nibelungenlied.


